docs/states.rst, before:

Available states
----------------

The following states are found in this formula:

.. contents::
   :local:


``nginx``
^^^^^^^^^
*Meta-state*.

This installs the nginx package,
manages the nginx configuration file
plus snippets, manages webroot dirs,
generates DH params if requested (discouraged),
starts the associated nginx service
and manages server configurations.


``nginx.package``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Installs the nginx package only.


``nginx.certs``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Generates certificates for servers that have ``certs`` set.
Also generates Diffie-Hellman key exchange parameters, if requested.
This is discouraged.
Has a dependency on `nginx.config`_.


``nginx.certs.dhparam``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



``nginx.certs.managed``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



``nginx.config``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Manages the nginx service configuration.
Has a dependency on `nginx.package`_.


``nginx.snippets``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Manages Nginx snippets.
Has a dependency on `nginx.package`_.


``nginx.webroots``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Ensures configured webroot directories are present.
Has a dependency on `nginx.package`_.


``nginx.service``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Starts the nginx service (and session key rotation service, if configured)
and enables it at boot time.
Has a dependency on `nginx.config`_.


``nginx.servers``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Manages server configurations and their state (enabled/disabled).
Has a dependency on `nginx.service`_.


``nginx.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*Meta-state*.

Undoes everything performed in the ``nginx`` meta-state
in reverse order, i.e.
removes managed server configurations,
stops the service,
removes webroots if ``nginx.lookup.remove_all_data_for_sure`` is True,
removes snippets, the configuration file and possibly
generated DH params and then uninstalls the package.


``nginx.package.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Removes the nginx package.
Has a dependency on `nginx.config.clean`_.


``nginx.certs.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Removes generated certificates, private keys and DH parameters.
Has a dependency on `nginx.service.clean`_.


``nginx.config.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Removes the configuration of the nginx service and has a
dependency on `nginx.service.clean`_.


``nginx.snippets.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Removes all managed snippets.


``nginx.webroots.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Removes configured webroot directories if
``nginx.lookup.remove_all_data_for_sure`` is True.
Has a dependency on `nginx.service.clean`_.


``nginx.service.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Stops the nginx service (and session key rotation service, if configured)
and disables it at boot time.


``nginx.servers.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Removes all managed server configurations.

Commit message:

feat: Install from official repo

docs/states.rst, after:

Available states
----------------

The following states are found in this formula:

.. contents::
   :local:


``nginx``
^^^^^^^^^
*Meta-state*.

This installs the nginx package and possibly repository,
manages the nginx configuration file
plus snippets, manages webroot dirs,
generates DH params if requested (discouraged),
starts the associated nginx service
and manages server configurations.


``nginx.package``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Installs the nginx package only.
If installation from repo is configured, will also
configure the selected repo.


``nginx.package.repo``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
This state will install the configured nginx repository.
This works for apt/dnf/yum/zypper-based distributions only by default.


``nginx.certs``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Generates certificates for servers that have ``certs`` set.
Also generates Diffie-Hellman key exchange parameters, if requested.
This is discouraged.
Has a dependency on `nginx.config`_.


``nginx.certs.dhparam``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



``nginx.certs.managed``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



``nginx.config``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Manages the nginx service configuration.
Has a dependency on `nginx.package`_.


``nginx.snippets``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Manages Nginx snippets.
Has a dependency on `nginx.package`_.


``nginx.webroots``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Ensures configured webroot directories are present.
Has a dependency on `nginx.package`_.


``nginx.service``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Starts the nginx service (and session key rotation service, if configured)
and enables it at boot time.
Has a dependency on `nginx.config`_.


``nginx.servers``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Manages server configurations and their state (enabled/disabled).
Has a dependency on `nginx.service`_.


``nginx.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*Meta-state*.

Undoes everything performed in the ``nginx`` meta-state
in reverse order, i.e.
removes managed server configurations,
stops the service,
removes webroots if ``nginx.lookup.remove_all_data_for_sure`` is True,
removes snippets, the configuration file and possibly
generated DH params and then uninstalls the package
and possibly repository.


``nginx.package.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Removes the nginx package and nginx repositories.
Has a dependency on `nginx.config.clean`_.


``nginx.package.repo.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
This state will remove the configured nginx repository.
This works for apt/dnf/yum/zypper-based distributions only by default.


``nginx.certs.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Removes generated certificates, private keys and DH parameters.
Has a dependency on `nginx.service.clean`_.


``nginx.config.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Removes the configuration of the nginx service and has a
dependency on `nginx.service.clean`_.


``nginx.snippets.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Removes all managed snippets.


``nginx.webroots.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Removes configured webroot directories if
``nginx.lookup.remove_all_data_for_sure`` is True.
Has a dependency on `nginx.service.clean`_.


``nginx.service.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Stops the nginx service (and session key rotation service, if configured)
and disables it at boot time.


``nginx.servers.clean``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Removes all managed server configurations.
